How do I improve my Critical Thinking Skills?

Of course. yes. Well, any skill level can be increased with proper learning and practice.

First and foremost, eliminate your assumptions, biases and prejudices about something. They are the enemies of critical thinking. Critical thinking is about being clear, consistent, accurate and logical. Your assumptions, biases and prejudices will make you come up with ambiguous and inaccurate conclusions.
Second, start questioning rigorously. Question everything. Never accept anything that comes to your face as is. Critical thinking starts and is driven by the why, what, how, when and where behind things. Just start questioning everything, even if it appears very rudimentary at first. “Why do we tap our foot and shake our head when listening to music? Why do we feel sleepy after a meal? Why is there a gap between two modules of a fly over bridge? Why is the bottom of a water bottle shaped in a specific way?”
Third, start with the absolute basics and work your way up. You need foundational knowledge about something first before you get to the more specific complex issues. As Elon Musk says, “…treat knowledge like a semantic tree….make sure you understand the fundamental principles, i.e., the trunk and big branches, before you get into the leaves/details or there is nothing for them to hang on to.” If you don’t structure your knowledge hierarchially, critical thinking would fail horribly.
Think abstractly (as opposed to concretely). This is absolutely crucial of all aspects about critical thinking. You should be able to identify the general ideas and relationships behind things rather than getting hooked up with the things themselves. This is how innovative ideas are born and great problems are solved.
Zoom in and out on the thing that you are critically thinking about. In the sense, don’t be just very generic or just very specific. The value of anything is determined by the individual units that make up it and how well these units are related and work together. So you need to be in grips with the fine details and also the big picture.



