Some Tips on becoming a great SWE:

1-Pay attention to small details.
2-Focus on the fundamentals which means, learn how and why things work in general and under the hood. This makes you a better engineer, exercises your mind in an analytical way, makes it easier for you to make connections and figure things out.
3-Don't tie your identity to certain technology or practice. Don't say I am a Python developer or a Kotlin developer, instead identify yourself as a developer and learn which tools exist, learn the tools that can benefit you and use the tools that are best for the job.
4-Learn new programming languages because every language gives you a different set of problems and perspectives which can be useful in the long run and improve your programming mindset. Each language you learn leaves a mark on you, embrace them and keep yourself open for new languages.
5-Don't be afraid to learn things that are "unnecessary".
6-You will work with people as much as you code in your career so if you communicate and work better and more efficiently with people eventually you will become a better engineer in the end. Be a great team player. Be a jolly person to work with. Be a good (crystal clear) communicator.
7-Don't plan on sticking on one career. Try different opportunities and find which one suits you the best.
8-Take care of your body, emotional and mental state. Read things, go for a walk, do activities don't just limit your time with programming. Find a healthy balance between all these things. This will help you be more productive and help sustain your joy in programming for a much longer amount of time.
9-Try to learn things that you are interested in and trends more deeper and wider. Look into these and it will help you stay up to date and be a better engineer.
10-Aim higher. A lot of people underestimate themselves and just don't try things that they could've succeeded at. You should experiment, try things, apply for jobs. Because you can and you should do it.


Importance of Soft Skills:
1. Be a GREAT communicator. What is Communication? --> It is the ability to convey a thought/idea in a manner to make other people can understand it.
2. Be a GREAT advocate for yourself. MARKET yourself. Convince that you are DIFFERENT from the crowd and how you STAND OUT.
3. You are a CREATOR. Always continue to be one.
4. Ask WHY before HOW.


Software Engineers bring a hell lot more monetary value to the table for any company they are working for than the amount of money they are compensated with. This disparity (monetary value - compensation) is the highest for SWEs. More than even doctors and lawyers.